Common Questions:

1. What is your age?

2. Do you have a clinical diagnosis of Stargardts Macular Degeneration?
3. Are you able to give signed and dated written informed consent to participate in a clinical trial?

//study 7 questions

3. Do you have less than or equal to 20/40 best corrected central visual acuity in one or both eyes AND/OR an abnormal visual field in one or both eyes?

4. Have you been at least 3 months post-surgical treatment intended to treat any ophthalmologic disease AND are you stable?

5. Are you under current medical therapy (pharmacologic treatment) for a retinal or optic nerve disease?

6. Do you feel you have the potential for improvement with Bone Marrow Stem Cell treatment AND be at minimal risk of any potential harm from the procedure?

7. 7. Are you medically stable and able to be medically cleared by your primary care physician OR a licensed primary care practitioner for the procedure? (Medical clearance means that in the estimation of the primary care practitioner, the patient can reasonably be expected to undergo the procedure without significant medical risk to health.)

//Exclusion Criteria:

8. Patients who are not capable of an adequate ophthalmologic examination OR evaluation to document the pathology would be excluded from some trials. Are you capable of an adequate ophthalmologic examination OR evaluation to document the pathology?

9. Patients who are not capable or not willing to undergo follow up eye exams with the principle investigator or their ophthalmologist or optometrist as outlined in the protocol would be excluded in some trials. Are you willing to undergo follow up eye exams with the principle investigator or their ophthalmologist or optometrist as outlined in the protocol?

11. Patients who may be at significant risk to general health or to the eyes and visual function should they undergo the procedure would be excluded from some studies. Are you at significant risk to general health or to the eyes and visual function should they undergo the procedure?

